##  Investigating Ground Subsidence Across Surface Features in the Yukon River Delta
Due to global climate change, Alaska’s permafrost is thawing at an alarming rate. Thawing permafrost releases harmful gases into the atmosphere, threatens fragile ecosystems, and damages infrastructure. Using Interferometric Synthetic Aperture Radar (InSAR), researchers can measure changes in ground deformation when it would not otherwise be possible. In this project, ground deformation was analyzed across different land cover types and topographic features in the vicinity of Bethel and Nunapitchuk, two villages near the Yukon River Delta. Ground subsidence data derived from Sentinel-1 imagery, land cover data from the National Land Cover Database (NCLD), and a digital terrain model (DTM) of Alaska were aligned using reprojection and resampling algorithms. Using Python, maps and statistics were created to measure ground subsidence and slope for each land cover type. On average, steeper slopes recorded less subsidence than flatter areas. Nearly all land cover types recorded sinking from 2018-2021. While wetlands, deciduous forest, and barren land were the most prone to thawing, urban areas only subsided slightly. However, Bethel’s river port and Nunapatchik’s airport suffered significant subsidence and should be prioritized for increased infrastructure monitoring. 

## Authors
**Charles McGrath**, Student, Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis
**Professor Roger Michaelides**, Advisor, Department of Earth, Environmental, and Planetary Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis
